Add Status subresource project idea (#1)
prometheus-operator/community: mentoring/gsoc/2024/project_ideas.md

---

## Ideas

### `*Monitor` status subresource

> - Description: Currently, there are 4 CRDs fully dedicated to configure Prometheus scrape targets, `PodMonitor`, `ServiceMonitor`, `Probes` and `ScrapeConfig`, and all of them are missing the `.Status` subresource. This project is about implementing the status subresource for all 4 CRDs to increase visibility and debuggability of scrape configuration. The fields added to the status subresource will be discused deeply during the mentorship, but a few ideas that already came up is showing list of Prometheus CRs that selected each Monitor CR and how many targets the resource identifies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Description: Currently, there are 4 Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) fully dedicated to configure Prometheus scrape targets, `PodMonitor`, `ServiceMonitor`, `Probes` and `ScrapeConfig`, and all of them are missing the `.Status` subresource. This project is about implementing the status subresource for all 4 CRDs to increase visibility and debuggability of scrape configuration. The fields added to the status subresource will be discussed deeply during the mentorship, but a potential idea is to list the Prometheus/PrometheusAgent objects that selected each Monitor object and how many targets are being scraped.
```

> - Recommended Skills: Go, Kubernetes, Kubernetes CRDs.

Reviewer: (nit) familiarity with Kubernetes is good enough for me
```suggestion
- Recommended Skills: Go, Kubernetes.
```

> - Expected project size: medium

Reviewer: I'd go with "large", like for the Daemonset topic.

Author: Yeah, I was a bit in doubt with this one, but let's be safe and classify as big
